# BeagleBone-Black-IOT
# IOT based Home automation system 
'''The project I made using BeagleBone Black involved a Webcam,PIR Motion sensor, a USB card reader, Speakers, USB hub,PCB design containing LEDs and resistors. The aim of the project was to build a Smart Security Doorbell which is able to perform the task of notifying the owner not home about an intruder or guest by using IOT. The basic layout of the doorbell consists of a Webcam to take a picture whenever
the PIR senses motion near the door. The picture is sent to the owners Telegram App. This part completes informing the owner about a
stranger near the house. Now to establish a communication system between the two subjects became the next step. This is because information could be shared between the owner and stranger, if he/ she happens to be an important person to the owner. How? This could be done by interfacing the audio feature between the Beaglebone microprocessor and the Telegram app. In Telegram , the audio feature is in the app itself, by long pressing the record button, the audio the owner wishes to sent to the person at the door is established. The output is connected to the speakers connected to the door. The wave file is converted to mp3 and connected to speakers. Now the response of the person at the door needs to be sent to the owner .This is done via the webcam consisting of the microphone inbuilt. The person records the information and it get stored in the microprocessor. The wave file is then converted to mp3 and is sent to the Bot of the Telegram by a set of algorithms. This is how audio communication is established. This project not only helps in providing security near house but also is helpful in sharing important messages via internet between to people who may know each other. The coding part was done in Linux using embedded Python. The following libraries were imported – Adafruit_BBIO, Subprocess, Telepot, Time, Sys.'''
